Viewpoint of the writer

There is no truth, just viewpoints. This is why we attempt to disclose our biases.
In all that I say, please be aware of:

Life cycle of theories, facts and measurements
- There are long standing scientific theaories + 50 years
- there are shortstanding scientific facts and theories, based on improving meaurements  <50 years
  (current average halflife of facts +/- 7 years, 50 years meand less than 1/100th is still considered true on average)
- measurements are short lived, some like the speed of light in vacuum stand longer, but only increase in significance

Significance
There is a thing called significance, which indicates an estimated error-margin. like 100 +/- 50
10 means +/- 5
or 3.03 which is meant as 3.03 +/- 0.005, where 3.0003 means +/- 0.00005
we can also say 3.3e5 meaning 3.3 times 10 to the power of 5, so 10000, meaning +/- 500
3.00 is considered more significant/accurate than 3.0
Significance is defined differently in statistics, although you could argue 
the concept of significance is an attempt to treat all datapoints alike, even single ones, by means of estimation.
It is the measure of the blurriness, vaguness of a datapoint. In my mind this unifies the two concepts into one.

Relativity of fathering scientific data
Scientific measurement is either
- a way of creating a repeatable experiment controlling the environment  in vitro, not in vivo.. 
- statistics, large number of datapoints to find trends, correlation, averages and filter out measuring mistakes.
- models, purely mathmatical models that mimic observed behaviour and are assumed to have similarworking principles 

Relativity of Math as a scientific tool
All current science relies on Math derived from calculus, which means the assumption of seperation and
seperatability. Which rely on solid state behaviour. Calculus id the diminitive form of Calx (sanfstone) meaning "pebble"
Calculus is a way of processing meaurements of pebble-like structures.
With the addition of other (less rational) numbering systems, Math has progressed, but remains
thoroughly biased towards calculus.

These methods are used to exclude subjective experience (magic thinking) as much as possible, 
but these are highly reductive of "the real world" and human biases and the belief in facts and abstractions rather than curent experience
clouds measurement towards subjective experience with added authority, leading to wrong conclusions.

Reality tends to be chaotic and undulatory in nature, the writer considers himself an emergentist, not a scientist.

These scientific tools are considered by many to be the best we have, the writer tends to see where these fail in combination with human biases, but largely agreees with that standpoint. Other than current fashion, he does see the archeological value of magic thinking and rituals as a robust store of knowledge and acknowledges the existence of intelligence of other types than "human intelligence".
He considers the internet, societies, dolphins, spiders, molds, ants, octopi and many other phenomena to be equally but differently intelligent to humans.
The only definition of intelligence he accepts is: a complex multitude of connections functioning as a whole.
He thinks self-awareness is mostly a habit and a hallucination a by product of meta-cognition, but then again, all things (rahter than phenomena) are a type of hallucination, this does not proclude usefulness. Halucination is a "put down word", but there is currently not a better one I can find. "Not true" opens a whole other can of worms.. What is true, then?

The writer is identified among other humans as "Jens Hjalmar Snoep", "Hjalmar" to friends. J.H. Snoep to officials and enemies.
Human, being.. Humans are in no objective measure currently the dominant species, except in the ability to consider itself dominant, be self aware, the ability to strategize, process information and augment our environment and bodies by technology and empathise with other humans mostly. 
These we call our qualities.
Date of birth 1972/11/12
He is cis-male, Dutch (one of 17,59 million people), 50 years old (current average age in Netherlands: 42,4 current life expectancy: 84) white/kaukasian (although he personally does not believe the concepts race, age or gender to matter, and names are social structures to promote indivicduality, it is how others would describe him)
He has been educated to the level of M.A. Master of Art, an international standard equivalent to "ing". Has been measured to be of more than average intelligence and has a very good memory and is still of sound mind.

He considers himself one viewpoint among many other possible accurate ones and undoubtedly unconciously biologically and historically biased, 
but feels himself able to convey information in spite of all that as long as he attempts to convey his biases along with the viewpoint.

Hello.



